
===== PAGE 1 =====
PRECHAMPIONSHIP
2025-26 MANUAL
PRECHAMPIONSHIP
2025-26 MANUAL

===== PAGE 2 =====
NCAA General Administrative Guidelines
Contents
1
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
THE NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
P.O. Box 6222
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6222
317-917-6222
ncaa.org
September 2025
NCAA, NCAA logo, National Collegiate Athletic Association and Elite 90 are
registered marks of the Association and use in any manner is prohibited unless
prior approval is obtained from the Association.
Section 1 • Introduction 2
Section 1•1  Definitions 2
Section 2 • Championship Core Statement 2
Section 3 • Conduct 3
Section 3•1  Certification of Eligibility/Availability 3
Section 3•2  Drug Testing 3
Section 3•3  Honesty and Sportsmanship 3
Section 3•4  Misconduct/Failure to Adhere to Policies 4
Section 3•5  Sports Wagering Policy 4
Section 3•6  Student-Athlete Experience Survey 4
Section 4 • Elite Scholar-Athlete™ Award 5
Section 5 • Fan Travel 5
Section 6 • Health and Safety 5
Section 7 • Logo Policy 5
Section 8 • Research 6
Section 9 • Travel Party 6
Section 10 • Religious Conflicts 6
Section 11 • Team Replacement Policy 6
===== PAGE 3 =====
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES
2
Section 1 • Introduction
During the 2025-26 academic year, the Association will sponsor 92 national championships – 43 for men, 47 for women 
and two for both men and women. Of the men’s championships, four are National Collegiate Championships, 13 are Division 
I championships, 12 are Division II championships and 14 are Division III championships. Of the women’s championships, 
eight are National Collegiate Championships, 12 are Division I championships, 13 are Division II championships and 14 are 
Division III championships. The combined men’s and women’s championships are National Collegiate Championships. 
The Prechampionship Manual will serve as a resource for institutions to prepare for the championship. This manual is 
divided into three sections: General Administrative Guidelines, Sport-Specific Information and Appendixes.
Sections one through nine apply to policies applicable to all 92 championships, while the remaining sections are sport specific.
Section 1•1  Definitions
Prechampionship Manual. Resource for institutions to prepare for the championship.
Administrative Meeting. Prechampionship meeting for coaches and/or administrators.
Appendixes. Any supplemental documents to be provided and distributed through the various resources. 
Championship Manager. The NCAA staff member(s) responsible for the operational oversight of the championship. 
Games Committee. The committee assigned to supervise the conduct of each championship session at a specific site. 
For finals sites, the games committee is typically the NCAA national committee.
NCAA National Committee. The sport committee with direct oversight responsibilities for the championship.
Non-predetermined Sites. Those sites that are selected to host at the time of the participant/team selections 
announcement.
Playing Rules. The rules under which the competition will be conducted.
Predetermined Sites. Those sites that are selected to host before the participant/team selections announcement.
Preliminary Rounds. The rounds of the championship before the final or championship round.
Regional Alignment. The geographic location of institutions or regional advisory committees.
Schedule of Events. Official event schedule – includes all required activities (e.g., practices, banquets).
Selection Criteria. Policies and procedures in place to guide the team selection process.
Site Selection Criteria. Policies and procedures in place to guide the site selection process.
Squad Size. In any championship in which a squad limit has been established by the governing sport committee or 
by the bylaws, the number of eligible student-athletes in competitive uniform eligible to participate at the start of 
competition.
Tournament Physician. The physician designated by the host institution/conference to serve as the chief medical 
advisor for the championship event(s) to be hosted at the host venue.
Section 2 • Championship Core Statement
The championships and alliances staff strives to administer competition in a fair, safe, equitable and sportsmanlike 
manner so that the experience of the student-athlete is paramount.
This is attained by:
Ensuring student-athletes’ optimal experience.
Executing championship events reflecting appropriate quality and values to/for stakeholders — student-athletes, 
coaches, administrators, member institutions, sport committees, fans, broadcast partners and corporate 
champions/partners.
===== PAGE 4 =====
3
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES
Coordinating all aspects of the championship in an efficient, effective manner through common operating policies 
and practices, using internal and external resources.
Integrating championships with broadcast and corporate relationships in a manner that maintains the integrity of 
the championship.
Assuring effective management of the business aspects of the operation.
Enhancing the assets of the NCAA and their value by collaborating with internal and external expertise to achieve 
heightened exposure (e.g., community programs, fan events, banquets, anniversaries).
Section 3 • Conduct
Section 3•1  Certification of Eligibility/Availability
[Reference: Certification of Eligibility/Availability in Bylaws 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20.2.4, 31.2.1.7.1, 31.2.1.7.1.2 and 31.2.2 in 
the NCAA Division I Manual, Bylaws 7.3.1.5 and 18.2.1 in the NCAA Division II Manual and Division II Championships 
Committee Policy and Bylaws 31.2.1.5, 31.2.1.5.2, and 31.2.2 in the NCAA Division III Manual.]
Only student-athletes eligible under Bylaws 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 may compete in NCAA championships. Member 
institutions are required to certify the eligibility of their student-athletes before the beginning of each academic year 
and to withhold ineligible student-athletes from all intercollegiate competition.
Member institutions are reminded to notify the NCAA national office before the selection date for each championship 
of any student-athlete who may have participated in regular-season competition but subsequently is determined to be 
ineligible or unavailable for NCAA championship competition.
DISCOVERY OF INELIGIBILITY OF A STUDENT-ATHLETE AFTER SELECTION
If an institution fails to report an ineligible student-athlete and the omission is not discovered until after the institution 
is selected to participate in the championship, necessitating the institution’s withdrawal from the championship, that 
withdrawal shall be considered as one of the years of ineligibility, provided another institution participates in the 
championship in place of the disqualified institution. If the discovery of the ineligible student-athlete occurs so near 
the beginning of the championship that the governing sport committee does not have a reasonable period of time to 
replace the disqualified institution in the bracket, that fact shall be taken into consideration in determining the number 
of years the disqualified institution shall be ineligible to participate.
Section 3•2  Drug Testing
As part of preparation and planning to participate in championship events, member institutions are reminded and 
encouraged to review all applicable policy and legislative requirements pertaining to banned substances, drug testing 
and related eligibility requirements with their student-athletes. Student-athletes who compete in NCAA championships 
may be subjected to drug tests in accordance with legislation and may be determined to be ineligible as a result thereof. 
Only student-athletes who have consented in writing to such testing are initially eligible for these championships; and 
thereafter, student-athletes who are tested shall remain eligible only if they test negative.
Section 3•3  Honesty and Sportsmanship
Individuals employed by (or associated with) a member institution to administer, conduct or coach intercollegiate 
athletics and all participating student-athletes shall act with honesty and sportsmanship at all times so that 
intercollegiate athletics as a whole, their institutions and they, as individuals, shall represent the honor and dignity of 
fair play and the generally recognized high standards associated with wholesome competitive sports.
===== PAGE 5 =====
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES
4
Section 3•4  Misconduct/Failure to Adhere to Policies
MISCONDUCT
Misconduct in an NCAA championship is any act of dishonesty, unsportsmanlike conduct, unprofessional behavior or 
breach of law, occurring from the time the championship field is announced through the end of the championship, that 
discredits the event or intercollegiate athletics. Each games committee shall hold an administrative meeting with the 
representatives of participating institutions to review and explain the policies related to misconduct.
FAILURE TO ADHERE TO POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
A governing sport committee may assess a financial penalty against an institution for failure of any of its representatives 
to adhere to the policies and procedures governing the administration of the competition. This includes, but is not 
limited to, failure to comply with the procedures and deadlines for submitting scores, score sheets, schedules, rosters 
and entry/march-in forms for qualification and other materials necessary for the efficient administration of the 
competition. Click here to see the full misconduct/failure to adhere to policies and procedures online.
Section 3•5  Sports Wagering Policy
Sports wagering includes placing, accepting or soliciting a wager (on a staff member’s or student-athlete’s own 
behalf or on the behalf of others) of any type with any individual or organization on any intercollegiate, amateur or 
professional team or contest. Examples of sports wagering include, but are not limited to, the use of a bookmaker 
or parlay card; internet sports wagering; mobile betting; auctions in which bids are placed on teams, individuals or 
contests; and pools or fantasy leagues in which an entry fee is required and there is an opportunity to win a prize.
The current NCAA legislation against sports wagering prohibits NCAA student-athletes, member institutions’ athletics 
staff and non-athletics staff with athletics responsibilities, and conference office staff from participating in sports 
wagering activities or providing information to individuals involved in or associated with any type of sports wagering 
activities concerning intercollegiate, amateur or professional athletics practice or competition in a sport in which the 
NCAA conducts championship competition, in bowl subdivision football and in emerging sports for women.
A wager is any agreement in which an individual or entity agrees to give up an item of value (e.g., cash, shirt, dinner) in 
exchange for the possibility of gaining another item of value.
STUDENT-ATHLETES
A student-athlete found in violation of the prohibition against knowingly participating in any sports wagering activities 
or providing information to individuals involved in or associated with any type of sports wagering activity that involves 
intercollegiate, amateur or professional athletics competition shall be ineligible for further intercollegiate competition, 
subject to appeal to the Committee on Student-Athlete Reinstatement for restoration of eligibility. 
POSTSEASON
In championships in which a bracket format is used, student-athletes, coaches and administrators may not participate 
in bracket competitions where there is both a required entry fee and an opportunity to win a prize. Student-athletes 
and administrators may participate under current NCAA rules in bracket contests where there is no entry fee but 
a possibility of winning a prize. Some NCAA member schools, however, have chosen to ban student-athletes from 
participating in these types of bracket contests.
HOSTING OPPORTUNITIES
It is permissible for NCAA championships to be conducted at locations in states that permit sports wagering.
Section 3•6  Student-Athlete Experience Survey
During the NCAA championships, the student-athlete experience is paramount. NCAA staff and hosts dedicate 
themselves to planning the best experiences for all involved. As part of our commitment to getting better, following 
the championship, participants will receive a survey to provide feedback on their experience and input on how 
championships can be improved for future NCAA student-athletes. Institutional administrators and coaches will receive 
===== PAGE 6 =====
5
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES
an email containing a link to the survey and will be asked to forward the survey to student-athletes. Additionally, this 
survey will be accessible via QR code found on the back of NCAA-issued championship credentials. 
We also understand that sometimes certain circumstances or conditions occurring during the events may require 
real-time consideration. When this is the case, student-athletes may reach out to their site representative or NCAA 
national office staff on-site.
Section 4 • Elite Scholar-Athlete ™ Award
The Elite Scholar-Athlete award was created to recognize the true essence of student-athletes by honoring individuals 
who have reached the pinnacle of competition at the national championship level in their sport, while also achieving 
the highest academic standard among their peers. The award is presented in every sport, every division, and goes 
to the student-athlete who has the highest cumulative grade-point average of all student-athletes competing at the 
finals site. One student-athlete per championship will receive the award, and the announcement of the winner will be 
made at the finals site.
Institutions that wish to nominate a student-athlete must do so through an online nomination process. For more 
information or to access the online form and submit a nomination, click here.
Section 5 • Fan Travel
Through support from Marriott International as the Official Hotel Partner of the NCAA, NCAA championships are 
pleased to provide easy and affordable accommodations for family and fans to follow their favorite student-athlete(s) 
and team(s) as they participate in NCAA championships competition. Travel arrangements completed through Marriott 
and NCAA Travel help support NCAA student-athletes. Please direct your fans to ncaa.com/travel to search and 
book online hotel reservations.
Section 6 • Health and Safety
As part of preparation and planning to host and/or participate in championship events, member institutions are 
reminded and encouraged to review all applicable health and safety policy and legislative requirements and guidance 
including, among others, those relating to concussion management, catastrophic injury prevention, inclement 
weather and independent medical care. These requirements and related information can be found in applicable division 
manuals, sports playing rules and the materials located on the Health, Safety & Performance website. In addition, 
a summary of some of the key health and safety considerations related to traveling to championship events can be 
found in the NCAA’s Guidance for Medical Care and Coverage for Student-Athletes at Away Events. 
Section 7 • Logo Policy
[Reference: Bylaws 12.5.4, 31.1.7 and 31.1.8 in the NCAA Division I Manual, Bylaw 17.1.10 in the NCAA Division II Manual and 
Bylaw 12.5.3 in the NCAA Division III Manual.]
A student-athlete may use athletics equipment or wear athletics apparel that bears the trademark or logo of an 
athletics equipment or apparel manufacturer or distributor in athletics competition and pre- and postgame activities 
(e.g., celebrations on the court, pre- or postgame press conferences), provided the following criteria are met:
1.  Athletics equipment (e.g., shoes, helmets, baseball bats and gloves, batting or golf gloves, hockey and lacrosse 
sticks, goggles and skis) shall bear only the manufacturer’s normal label or trademark, as it is used on all such 
items for sale to the general public; and
===== PAGE 7 =====
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES
6
2. The student-athlete’s institution’s official uniform (including numbered racing bibs and warmups) and all other 
items of apparel (e.g., socks, head bands, T-shirts, wrist bands, visors or hats, swim caps and towels) shall bear 
only a single manufacturer’s or distributor’s normal label or trademark (regardless of the visibility of the label or 
trademark), not to exceed 2-1/4 square inches in area (rectangle, square, parallelogram) including any additional 
material (e.g., patch) surrounding the normal trademark or logo. The student-athlete’s institution’s official uniform 
and all other items of apparel shall not bear a design element similar to the manufacturer’s trademark/logo that 
is in addition to another trademark/logo that is contrary to the size restriction.
Section 8 • Research
In order to avoid inappropriate and unnecessary participant distraction and disruption of championship events, it is 
expected any data collection or other research efforts conducted at or during championship events will be coordinated 
through the national office, with notice and a description of any research proposal to be submitted to the NCAA 
research staff at least six weeks before the championships event begins.
Section 9 • Travel Party
Please refer to the NCAA travel policies for all information regarding transportation and per diem expenses. NCAA 
Travel policies are updated annually and can be found online here. Please reference Appendix A of the travel policies 
for reimbursable travel party numbers. The travel policies supersede all other documents.
Section 10 • Religious Conflicts
[Reference: Bylaws 31.1.4.1 and 31.1.4.2 in the NCAA Division I Manual.]
Institutional Policy. If a participating institution has a written policy against competition on a particular day for 
religious reasons, it shall inform the NCAA national office on or before Sept. 1 of each academic year in order for it or 
one of its student-athletes to be excused from competing on that day. The championship schedule shall be adjusted to 
accommodate that institution. (Adopted: 4/22/98, Revised: 8/11/98, 10/28/99, 5/2/13)
Individual Championships. In individual championships, an athlete must compete according to the institution’s policy 
regarding Sunday competition (if the institution has no policy against Sunday competition, the student-athlete shall 
compete on Sunday if required by the schedule).
Section 11 • Team Replacement Policy
Division I developed a team replacement policy considering the possibility of unforeseen circumstances impacting 
championship fields. The policy will be implemented in accordance with the terms set forth in the policy document 
available here when, despite best efforts, a team within the championship field is impeded or hindered from 
participating in the championship for reasons beyond its control.
===== PAGE 8 =====
Division I Baseball
Contents
7
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
Section 1 • General Administration 8
Section 1•1  NCAA Tournament Operations Staff Contact Information   8
Section 1•2  Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee Members  8
Section 1•3  Regional Advisory Committees 9
Section 1•4  Important Dates 11
Section 1•5  Equipment 12
Section 1•6  Rules 13
Section 1•7  Uniforms  15
Section 2 • Determination of Championship Participation 16
Section 2•1  Championship Format  16
Section 2•2  Results 20
Section 2•3  Selection Information  20
Section 2•4  Selection Criteria  21
Section 2•5  Site Selection 23
Appendix A • Brackets 28
Appendix B • Sport Sponsorship 31
===== PAGE 9 =====
Section 1•1  NCAA Tournament Operations  
Staff Contact Information  
Randy L. Buhr (Championship Manager)
Director, Championships and Alliances
P.O. Box 6222 / Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6222
317-917-6716 / rlbuhr@ncaa.org
Chad Tolliver (Operations)
Director, Championships and Alliances
P.O. Box 6222 / Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6222
317-917-6706 / ctolliver@ncaa.org
Jay Jay Rackley (Operations)
Coordinator, Championships and Alliances
P.O. Box 6222 / Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6222
317-917-6834 / jrackley@ncaa.org
Jeff Williams (Media Coordinator)
Associate Director, Championships and Alliances
P.O. Box 6222 / Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6222
317-917-6138 / jswilliams@ncaa.org
Section 1•2  Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship 
Subcommittee Members 
Current members of the committee are:
EAST REGION MIDWEST REGION
Michael Alford, chair
Vice President and Director of Athletics 
Florida State University
Scott Dolson
Vice President and Director of Intercollegiate Athletics
Indiana University, Bloomington
SOUTHEAST REGION MIDWEST REGION
Jon Gilbert, vice chair
Director of Athletics
East Carolina University
Tim Johnson
Director of Athletics
Oral Roberts University
WEST REGION SOUTH REGION
Scott Leykam
Vice President and Director of Athletics
University of Portland
Jeremy McClain
Director of Athletics
University of Southern Mississippi
MIDWEST REGION SOUTH REGION
Randale L. Richmond
Vice President and Director of Athletics
Kent State University
Casey Scott  
Executive Associate Director of Athletics 
Kansas State University
SOUTH REGION SOUTHEAST REGION
Greg Seitz 
Vice President for Athletics 
Jacksonville State University
Scott Stricklin 
Director of Athletics 
University of Florida
For additional information about the Division I Baseball Championship, contact:
Randy L. Buhr
Director, Championships and Alliances
317-917-6716 / rlbuhr@ncaa.org
Michael Alford, chair
Director of Athletics
Florida State University
Section 2 • Conflict of Interest Policy
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
8
Section 1 • General Administration
===== PAGE 10 =====
Section 1•3  Regional Advisory Committees
[Reference: Regional Advisory Committees in the Division I General Section and Bylaw 21.8.1.6 in the Division I NCAA Manual.]
Each conference shall appoint a member of the advisory committee in its respective region to assist in the evaluation 
of teams throughout the season. Below are the members of the 2026 Division I Baseball regional advisory committees.
NAME INSTITUTION CONFERENCE
EAST
Scott Leykam, chair Portland WCC
Scott Dolson Indiana Big Ten
Casey Scott Kansas St. Big 12
Scott Stricklin Florida SEC
Liam Bowen UMBC America East
Ethan Bragg N/A Patriot
John Delaney Quinnipiac MAAC
Chad Dwyer N/A America East
Randy Hood UNCW CAA
Caitlin Hughes N/A NEC
Steve Kanaby N/A CAA
Celene McGowan N/A Ivy League
AJ Miller Lafayette Patriot
Dan Pirillo LIU NEC
Jessica Rippey N/A ACC
Whitney Swab N/A MAAC
Rucker Taylor Davidson Atlantic 10
Tom Walter Wake Forest ACC
Tom Waterman N/A Atlantic 10 
John Yurkow Penn Ivy League
MIDWEST
Jeremy McClain, chair Southern Miss. Sun Belt
Scott Dolson Indiana Big Ten
Tim Johnson Oral Roberts Summit League
Randale L. Richmond Kent St. MAC
Rob Bishop South Dakota St. Summit League
James Greene N/A Big East
Mike Kern N/A MVC
Kyle Klein N/A MAC
Jeff Mercer Indiana Big Ten
Bryan Miller N/A Summit League
Drew Naumovich N/A Horizon
Billy O’Connor Xavier Big East
Rob Reinstetle Toledo MAC
9
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 11 =====
NAME INSTITUTION CONFERENCE
Brian Schmack Valparaiso MVC
Alex Sogard Wright St. Horizon
Katie Stankiewicz N/A Big Ten
SOUTH
Jon Gilbert, chair East Carolina American 
Jeremy McClain Southern Miss. Sun Belt
Casey Scott Kansas St. Big 12
Greg Seitz Jacksonville St. CUSA
Andrew Bechac N/A Southland
Jordan Bischel Cincinnati Big 12
Terry Davis Western Ill. OVC
Spencer Dodd N/A Sun Belt
Johnny Hernandez Bethune-Cookman SWAC
Eric Jones N/A CUSA
Skylar Meade Troy Sun Belt
John Payne N/A Big 12
Ryan Shotzberger UIW Southland
Reginald Thomas N/A SWAC
Greg Walter N/A OVC
Rich Witten FIU CUSA
SOUTHEAST
Randale L. Richmond, chair Kent St. MAC
Jon Gilbert East Carolina American
Scott Stricklin Florida SEC
Matt Boyer N/A SEC
Mark Bryant N/A Big South
Geoff Cabe N/A Southern
Tony David Samford Southern
Joey Hammond High Point Big South 
Chris Hayes Jacksonville ASUN
Jay Johnson LSU SEC
Joseph Kaminski N/A ASUN
Jay Uhlman Tulane American
Bobby Weygand N/A American
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
10

===== PAGE 12 =====
NAME INSTITUTION CONFERENCE
WEST
Greg Seitz, chair Jacksonville St. CUSA
Tim Johnson Oral Roberts Summit League
Scott Leykam Portland WCC
Gary Adcock California Baptist WAC
Tod Brown New Mexico MWC
Doug Drabik N/A WCC
Sean Harris N/A MWC
Tyler Huntley N/A Big West
Eric Newman UC San Diego Big West
Drew Speraw N/A WAC
Brock Ungricht San Diego WCC
Section 1•4  Important Dates
Monday, April 20 Regional and super regional proposed budget materials available on ncaa.org.
Monday, May 18 Deadline for submission of proposed budgets for regionals and super regionals.
Friday, May 22 Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee begins   
 meeting to finalize selection of teams.
Monday, May 25 Televised selection show of championship bracket (tentatively noon Eastern time   
 on ESPN2).
Fri.-Mon., May 29-June 1 Regional tournaments.
Tuesday, June 2 Super regional site selection press release (approximately 8 a.m. Eastern time).
Fri.-Mon., June 5-8 Super regional tournaments.
Sat.-Mon., June 6-8 NCAA staff teleconferences with Men’s College World Series (MCWS)    
 participating teams (times TBD).
Monday, June 8 First-round MCWS game dates/times press release (approximately 8 p.m.   
 Eastern time).
Wednesday, June 10 MCWS administrative meeting (7 p.m. Eastern time/6 p.m. Central time).
Friday, June 12 MCWS begins at Charles Schwab Field Omaha in Omaha, Nebraska; hosted by  
 Creighton University, University of Nebraska at Omaha, College World Series, Inc.,  
 the Metropolitan Entertainment & Convention Authority, and the city of Omaha.
Sat.-Sun./Mon., June 20-21/22 MCWS finals.
CHAMPIONSHIP DATES
Regionals May 29-June 1
Super Regionals June 5-7 or June 6-8
MCWS June 12-21/22
DATE FORMULA
Regionals begin the Friday after Memorial Day. 
Super Regionals begin the Friday after regionals.
Men’s College World Series begins the Friday after super regionals and concludes on the second Monday after the start 
of the Series.
11
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 13 =====
FUTURE DATES 
Regionals Super Regionals MCWS
2027 June 4-7 June 11-13 or 12-14 June 18-27/28
2028 June 2-5 June 9-11 or 10-12 June 16-25/26
2029 June 1-4 June 8-10 or 9-11 June 15-24/25
Section 1•5  Equipment
BASEBALLS/RUBBING MUD/ROSIN BAGS
The Rawlings FSR1NCAA baseball has been selected as the official baseball for all games in the regionals, super regionals 
and Men’s College World Series. Thirty-five (35) dozen game balls will be sent to each regional site and 15 dozen game 
balls will be sent to each super regional site. The balls will be shipped to the tournament manager at the host institution. 
Each team must furnish its own practice balls. 
Per NCAA Baseball playing rules (Rule 1-11-a), the home team should provide baseballs to the umpires to be rubbed in to 
remove the glossiness before all games start. The host institution is responsible for having the proper material to “rub 
up” the baseballs. Moistened river silt (i.e., baseball rubbing mud) makes an excellent material to remove the gloss from  
the baseballs.
The host institution must provide a rosin bag for use at the pitcher’s mound for all games during the championship.
CLUBHOUSE USAGE POLICY
Clubhouse Usage. The host institution will be allowed to use its clubhouse regardless of being designated as the home 
or visiting team in any given game in which it participates. 1) If the host venue has a host team clubhouse area and a 
secondary internal space for the visiting team, both teams will have access to their respective “clubhouse” spaces 
pregame, in-game and postgame. The restroom facilities section of this manual will take effect at the start of the game 
and continue through the entirety of the actual game. 2) If the host venue does not have two clubhouses/locker rooms 
that provide similar standard amenities (e.g., shelter, close access to dugout, functioning heating/cooling, restrooms, 
showers). Access to their clubhouse/locker room will be provided to the host institution up until the start of their 
pregame batting practice. The restroom facilities section of this manual will take effect at the start of the home team 
batting practice through the entirety of the actual game. All teams besides the host institution participating in the 
championship should come to the venue in uniform. Security shall be provided in any clubhouse/locker room during the 
pregame, the entire game and the postgame. The intent of this rule is to provide equitable restroom facilities for each 
participating team during the course of a game. Team members should shower at their hotel after the practice/game, 
as opposed to at the venue.
Restroom Facilities. Restroom facilities must be available and readily accessible for student-athletes during the course 
of the game (e.g., port-a-johns or permanent restrooms). Both teams participating in a given game must be provided 
access to comparable restroom facilities in close proximity to the dugout and/or bullpen starting with the beginning of 
the home team batting practice through the entirety of the actual game.
Inclement Weather Accommodations. If there is inclement weather, the host institution may have access to its 
clubhouse during a game delay regardless of being designated as the home or visiting team in any given game in which it 
participates; however, the host institution must provide access to adequate comparable space to accommodate the other 
participating team(s). The intent of this rule is to provide equitable inclement weather facilities for each participating 
team during the course of any weather delays.
DUGOUT AND BULLPEN PROVISIONS
The NCAA will provide certain championship-relevant equipment (sidelines hydration, competition playing equipment, etc.) 
on a sport-by-sport basis that must be used in all championship activity. Each championship will receive information from 
the NCAA pertaining to any equipment that will be provided. Information will also be requested of each host institution/
conference such as a completed inventory sheet (template provided by the NCAA) and pictures for proof of performance. 
The purpose of the equipment is to hydrate student-athletes for competition. 
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
12

===== PAGE 14 =====
Drinking cups, water coolers, ice chests, cooler carts and water bottles should be provided at team benches (if applicable) 
for each scheduled practice or competition of any round of an NCAA championship. Participating teams shall place any 
premix fluid replacement in the NCAA-issued coolers and water bottles when applicable. No other cups, cans, coolers or 
water bottles may be used in the dugouts, bullpens or in the media areas during championships in which such equipment 
is provided by the NCAA. If applicable, the host institution/conference may retain the coolers, cooler carts and ice chests 
after the competition. Reoccurring institutions/conferences are strongly encouraged to use the same equipment the 
following year unless otherwise notified by the NCAA. Participating teams may retain the water bottles and bottle carriers 
after the competition.
Competitors of NCAA Corporate Champion Coca-Cola may not provide product (e.g., beverages, water, isotonics) for any 
NCAA championship, even if the competition offers product for free or at a reduced cost. The championship budget will 
cover the purchase of Coca-Cola beverage products.  
Teams should use white, unbranded towels during regional and super regional games. As a result, teams may not use 
towels of any color or that contain any commercial branding (e.g., Gatorade, Powerade) in team dugouts, bullpens or on 
the field of play during the championship.
Section 1•6  Rules
Per NCAA Bylaw 17.34 member institutions shall conduct all of their intercollegiate competition in accordance with the 
playing rules of the Association in all sports for which the NCAA develops playing rules. For those sports in which the 
Association follows rules that are developed by other governing bodies and modified by the governing sport committee, 
the adopted playing rules shall be used. The governing sport committee will not consider any results for selection 
purposes that are not played in accordance with NCAA rules, or those rules adopted by an outside organization. The 
2025 and 2026 NCAA Baseball Rules Book shall be used for championship play.
BALL PERSONS
The host institution should provide a ball person to assist the umpires for all games, and not just the games in which the 
host institution participates.
DOUBLE BASE AT FIRST BASE
The host institution must install and have in place a double base at first base for use during regionals and super regionals. 
The double base at first base will also be used at the NCAA Men’s College World Series.
LENGTH OF GAME — HALTED-GAME RULE
All games shall be nine innings. If play has been stopped before nine innings have been completed, the halted-game rule 
(Rule 5-9) shall be used. Note: The 10-Run Rule — Rule 5-8-b-(4) — shall not be used for regionals, super regionals or the 
Men’s College World Series.
OFFICIAL SCORER
Per NCAA Baseball playing rules (Rule 3-5), each championship host site is required to assign an official scorer for each 
game. The official scorer for each game shall be appointed by the tournament manager, and his or her duties shall be 
outlined in the 2025 and 2026 NCAA Baseball Rules Book (Rule 10-1). 
It is recommended that the Official NCAA Baseball Scorebook be used for all tournament games.
PROTEST PROCEDURE
The following protest procedure shall be used in all tournaments:
1. Any protest by the coach of a competing team must be made at the time of the action or incident that caused the 
protest, and before play is resumed;
2. If the game ends (legal contest) in a protestable situation, the offended team has until all fielders have left fair 
territory to voice its protest intentions;
13
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 15 =====
3. All protests must be made to the umpire crew chief; however, if the crew chief is not working the game, the assistant 
crew chief or the home plate umpire shall receive the protest;
4. No protest shall be allowed that involves a judgment decision by an umpire; and
5. All protests must be ruled upon immediately by the protest committee [NCAA site representative(s), umpire crew 
chief and/or assistant crew chief]. The protest committee shall make a written report to the chair of the NCAA 
Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee after making its decision.
TIMING DEVICES
A visible clock is required in conjunction with the regionals, super regionals and the Men’s College World Series. There 
will be three visible clocks that will be used at the NCAA Men’s College World Series. The umpires will be responsible for 
tracking the time between pitches/innings on the field and also the enforcement of the associated rules with the visible 
clock available in the stadium. The clock generally will be kept and/or monitored by the third base umpire.
UMPIRES
Six umpires will be assigned to the regionals and four umpires will be assigned to the super regionals. Four umpires will 
be assigned to each tournament game. If different umpires are assigned to the continuation of a suspended game, the 
umpiring fee will be divided equally among the officials.
The umpires must report to the tournament manager one hour before the game they are to work and be on the field 15 
minutes before the start of the game.
An umpire shall not work more than two games in one day except in an emergency situation.
It is recommended that the host institution for regional competition provide seats for nonworking umpires.
Umpires for the championship will be selected by the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship 
Subcommittee, based on recommendations of conferences and a review of the umpires by the national coordinator 
of baseball umpires, the baseball umpire advisors, and the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship 
Subcommittee (Umpire Subcommittee).
Each umpire will receive $3,500 for regionals. The regional crew chief will receive $3,800 and the regional assistant 
crew chief will receive $3,500. For super regionals each umpire will receive $2,000 and the super regional crew chief 
will receive $2,300. For the Men’s College World Series, each umpire will receive $10,000 and the two crew chiefs will 
receive $10,300. Umpires will also receive coach airfare or round-trip mileage based on NCAA Travel policies if assigned 
to a site less than 400 miles from the umpire’s home. If the umpire is 400 miles or more from the site and chooses to 
drive, they will be reimbursed their actual mileage per mile, up to the cost of the lowest available coach airline ticket. 
The mileage reimbursement will be capped at 400 miles one-way. A $45 per diem also is provided, beginning with the 
day of arrival and ending with the day of departure. The NCAA will reimburse the umpire for the above expenses. All 
umpire expenses (game fee, per diem, mileage, etc.) will be paid directly by the NCAA using RefQuest Plus (RQ+), an 
online officials payment system. All umpires working the championship will be contacted by the NCAA prior to the 
championship and provided more detailed information regarding RQ+.
The host institution tournament manager should make all hotel lodging arrangements for any umpires working at their 
regional/super regional site. While the quality of lodging for the umpires should be consistent with that of the student-
athletes, the umpires should not be housed in the same property as any of the participating teams. The host institution 
should be responsible for the umpires’ lodging costs (room and tax only). The host institution should work with the hotel 
to set up a direct bill back to the institution for these charges. The host institution should budget for the umpires’ lodging 
for the maximum number of tournament days as part of its budgeted expenses in its proposed budget.
Policies. A sport committee or games committee may not require membership in any specific officials’ association as 
a prerequisite for selection to officiate in an NCAA meet or tournament. Officials shall be selected and assigned by 
the sport oversight committee, championship subcommittee or games committee, which shall ensure that officials 
adhere to the Association’s policies relating to gambling activities and drug and alcohol use. Furthermore, officials 
must conduct themselves in a manner befitting intercollegiate athletics. Failure to do so may result in termination of 
the officiating assignment. 
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
14

===== PAGE 16 =====
VIDEO BOARD REPLAYS
Host institutions with video boards shall adhere to the guidelines set forth in the 2025 and 2026 NCAA Baseball Rules 
Book (Appendix B). During the championship, all replays (except listed in A-1-a through g) may be shown once, regardless 
of replay speed. Live video must cease once a student-athlete enters the batter’s box and may resume upon contact with 
the bat after the pitch.
Section 1•7  Uniforms 
[Reference: Bylaw 22.4 in the NCAA Division I Manual.]
Once a team enters the stadium/field, it is required that the team be in full pregame or regular-game uniform. In addition, 
team representatives must be in appropriate attire, not necessarily in uniform, for all other championship functions (i.e., 
press conferences, banquets, autograph sessions), which shall include warmups, batting practice and infield practice. As 
for practice uniforms, shorts are permissible provided they are institutionally issued apparel and all team members are 
wearing shorts during the practice. 
In addition, institutionally issued shorts are permissible during pregame batting practice as long as all team members 
are wearing shorts.
During all on-site practices and pregame activities (e.g., warmups, batting practice, taking infield/outfield), participating 
teams are required to wear a jersey/shirt with clearly legible uniform numbers on them. These numbers should be at 
least six inches in height and be located on the back of the jersey/shirt. Each student-athlete’s practice number must be 
the same number he will wear during the game. All teams are required to wear only institutional apparel during on-site 
practices and pregame activities. Game uniforms must adhere to Rule 1-14 of the 2025 and 2026 NCAA Baseball Rules 
Book. Please note that for the 2026 championship, it is the responsibility of the visiting team to wear a contrasting 
uniform color to the jersey worn by the home team. The home team gets to select their desired uniform color first. 
Please note that it is also required that the base coaches wear a helmet.
This bylaw will be strictly enforced at all NCAA championships, and the names of individuals and institutions that are not 
in compliance with this bylaw shall be forwarded to the NCAA enforcement staff.
LOGOS
Refer to General Administrative Guidelines, Section 7.
15
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 17 =====
Section 2•1  Championship Format 
CHAMPIONSHIP STRUCTURE 
The championship provides for a field of 64 teams. There are 29 conference champions that qualify automatically; 
the balance of the field is selected at-large by the NCAA Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship 
Subcommittee.
Sixteen four-team regionals will be conducted with the winners advancing to eight two-team super regionals. Winners 
of the eight super regional tournaments will qualify for the Men’s College World Series in Omaha, Nebraska. All regional 
tournaments will be double-elimination. The super regionals will be best-of-three series. The brackets used for the 
regional competitions as well as the Men’s College World Series may be found in Appendix A.
Regional Format
The procedures outlined below shall be used in the conduct of all 16 regional competitions.
The regionals must start the Friday after Memorial Day and will be conducted over a four-day period. There might not be 
a game played on Monday, provided the “if necessary” game is not needed. All regional competition should be completed 
not later than the Monday before the start of super regional competition.
Prospective host institutions must submit preferred starting times for all games and Day 1 game order with the hosting 
proposal material. However, all starting times and game orders for the first day of competition will be determined by the 
NCAA and its broadcast partners. 
For regional competitions, the following procedure will be observed:
Day 1
Game 1 No. 1 vs. No. 4
Game 2 No. 2 vs. No. 3
Day 2
Game 3 Loser Game 1 vs. Loser Game 2
Game 4 Winner Game 1 vs. Winner Game 2
Day 3
Game 5 Winner Game 3 vs. Loser Game 4
Game 6 Winner Game 4 vs. Winner Game 5
Day 4
Game 7 If necessary, same teams as in Game 6.
It should be noted that the pairings in the bracket may not be altered and the game orders during the remainder of the 
tournament may not be adjusted.
Section 2 • Conflict of Interest Policy
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
16
Section 2 • Determination of 
Championship Participation
===== PAGE 18 =====
Please note that the only exception per NCAA Bylaw 31.1.4.1 states that if a participating institution has a written 
policy against competition on a particular day for religious reasons, the championship schedule shall be adjusted to 
accommodate that institution. If an institution has a policy against any competition on a Sunday, and it was to make the 
2026 championship field, the schedule for that regional site in which the institution would be assigned shall be adjusted 
as follows:
Thursday, May 28 - two games
Friday, May 29 - two games
Saturday, May 30 - two games
Sunday, May 31 -  no games (please note that the “if necessary” game would only be played on this day if the team 
being accommodated for religious reasons has already been eliminated from the championship). 
Monday, June 1 - one game (if necessary).
If, for unforeseen circumstances, it becomes impossible to play a regional tournament game(s), the NCAA Division I 
Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee is authorized to determine which team in a respective 
regional shall advance to the super regionals. The inclement weather guidelines for regional competition are listed in the 
preliminary-rounds host operations manual.
Super Regional Format
The procedures outlined below shall be used in the conduct of all super regional competitions.
The super regionals will start either the Friday or Saturday after regional competition (four super regionals will begin 
Friday and the other four super regionals will begin Saturday) and will be conducted over a three-day period (if necessary). 
Super regional competition should be completed not later than the Monday before the start of the Men’s College World 
Series. The inclement weather guidelines for super regional competition are also listed in the preliminary-rounds host 
operations manual.
Prospective host institutions must submit preferred starting times for all games with the hosting proposal material. Please 
note that the NCAA, in consultation with its broadcast partner, will determine the dates and times of super regional games. 
For all super regional competitions, the following procedure will be observed:
Day 1
Game 1 Team A vs. Team B
Day 2
Game 2 Team A vs. Team B
Day 3
Game 3 If necessary, Team A vs. Team B.
Please note that the only exception per NCAA Bylaw 31.1.4.1 states that if a participating institution has a written 
policy against competition on a particular day for religious reasons, the championship schedule shall be adjusted to 
accommodate that institution.
If, for unforeseen circumstances, it becomes impossible to play and complete a super regional tournament(s), the  
Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee is authorized to determine which team(s) shall 
advance to the Men’s College World Series.
Men’s College World Series
The eight winners of the super regional competitions will advance to the Men’s College World Series.
The NCAA and its broadcast partner will determine the order in which the games will be played during a tentative June 
8 teleconference. Each four-team bracket then will play a double-elimination tournament to determine the bracket 
champions. The two bracket champions will play a best two-of-three championship series (MCWS Finals) to determine 
the national champion. The MCWS Finals format consists of single games Saturday, Sunday and Monday (if necessary), 
June 20-21/22.
17
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 19 =====
Please note that the only exception per NCAA Bylaw 31.1.4.1 states that if a participating institution has a written 
policy against competition on a particular day for religious reasons, the championship schedule shall be adjusted to 
accommodate that institution.
The Men’s College World Series bracket, including dates, pairings and game times, may be found in Appendix A.
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
The following pregame schedule shall be followed for all regional and super regional games that are played on natural  
grass fields:
Before Game
Home batting practice 2:15
Visitor batting practice 1:35
Remove cage :55
Home infield :45
Visitor infield :35
Field preparation :25
Introductions (visiting team first), if necessary :14
National Anthem (if necessary) :09
Umpires/coaches meeting :06
Home team on field :02
First pitch :00
The following pregame schedule may be followed for all regional and super regional games that are played on field turf infields:
Before Game
Home batting practice 2:00
Visitor batting practice 1:20
Remove cage :40
Home infield :34
Visitor infield :24
Field preparation :14
Introductions (visiting team first), if necessary :13
National Anthem (if necessary) :09
Umpires/coaches meeting :06
Home team on field :02
First pitch :00
It is recommended that, between the last out of the previous game and the start of the next game, a 55-minute period 
be allowed, which provides for a minimum of a 10-minute warm-up period before the home team takes infield. Batting 
practice shall be conducted on the field of competition for teams competing in the first game of a session (weather 
permitting). At regional sites, if time permits, on-field batting practice for the second game of a day is allowable at the 
venue/grounds crew’s discretion, subject to the ultimate approval of the NCAA site representative(s). The start of the 
second game cannot be delayed to provide for the batting practice on the game field.
START TIMES
As a general guideline, no game should start later than 11 p.m. (local time). In addition, a game shall not start on Sundays 
before noon (local time). As a general guideline, a potential Men’s College World Series Championship clinching game (i.e., 
MCWS Finals Game 2 or 3) should not start later than 9 p.m. (local time). All final determinations on late start times will 
be made by the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee and NCAA national office staff in 
consultation with the NCAA site representatives on site. 
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
18

===== PAGE 20 =====
NEW for 2026: Regionals – minimum overnight turnaround for participating teams.  
If a game concludes after 1 a.m. local time, the teams participating in that game shall have a minimum of 12 hours 
before the first pitch of their next game. This may require an adjustment to the scheduled first pitch time of the game 
in question.
Example: After a two-hour rain delay, Game 2 of the Indianapolis Regional goes 15 innings and does not end until 2:30 
a.m. Team B lost Game 2 and is scheduled to play in Game 3, Saturday at noon. Under the new policy, Game 3 would not 
be permitted to start until 2:30 p.m. (instead of noon) to allow Team B to have at least 12 hours between their games.
Regionals
All regional-round games will be covered on an ESPN platform (ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU or ESPN+). Prospective hosts shall 
submit their preferred starting times for all games and Day 1 game order for both games. However, hosts should note 
that the finalized regional game times and Day 1 game order shall be determined by the NCAA and ESPN. It should be 
noted that the pairings in the regional bracket may not be altered during the remainder of the tournament. Please note 
that the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee, in consultation with ESPN, may adjust 
the dates and times of regional games. The game times and game order for regionals will be publicized in conjunction 
with the championship bracket announcement on Monday, May 25.
Super Regionals
Prospective host institutions must submit preferred starting times for all games with the hosting proposal material. 
Please note that the NCAA and ESPN will determine the dates and times of super regional games.
TICKETS
Ticket prices for all tournaments shall be in accordance with the minimum prices outlined below as determined by the 
Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee.
The minimum ticket price for regional and super regional competition may not be less than what the host institution 
charges for regular-season games. In addition, hosts may sell a single ticket for all games during a day of regional 
competition if the price of an all-day ticket equals the number of games times the ticket price for a single game. Finally, 
an all-session ticket may be offered at a discounted rate.
Ticket prices may be scaled according to seat location, but the following minimum prices shall prevail:
Reserved General Admission Students Box Seat
Regionals $8 $6 $4 $9
Super Regionals $10 $7 $4 --
Two hundred (200) tickets must be held for each visiting regional team for the games in which they will participate. 
During the regional round, visiting teams shall not be required to purchase all-session ticket packages. They will only 
need to purchase tickets for the game in which their team is involved. Six hundred (600) all-session tickets must be 
held for each visiting super regional team. Tickets must be held until 10 a.m. local time on the day of the game for the 
participating team(s) for the games in which they participate in the regionals and super regionals. These tickets must all 
be located between first and third base.
TRAVEL PARTY
Please refer to the NCAA Travel policies for all information regarding transportation and per diem expenses. Travel 
policies can be found online at ncaa.org/championships/travel/championships-travel-information.
NEW for 2026: The official travel party for all rounds of the championship is 35. The squad size is 34 student-athletes 
in uniform eligible to compete. On the field, including the practice field, bullpen, bench and dugout, each team is limited 
to four official coaches in uniform, 34 eligible student-athletes in uniform and seven additional individuals as determined 
by the institution. Only uniformed personnel, including coaches and eligible student-athletes, may be permitted between 
the white lines and in the bullpens. The maximum limit in the dugout is 45 individuals. A bat handler, who must be 13 years 
of age or older, does not count against the maximum limit of 45 individuals. Nonuniformed personnel in proper attire may 
participate in pregame warmups. Once a game begins, the athletic trainer or manager is permitted on the field only to 
perform his/her appropriate duty (e.g., warming up a pitcher is not considered an appropriate duty).
19
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 21 =====
A nonrostered bullpen catcher is permitted but must be included in a team’s 45-person dugout limit.
An institution that is advised it is in violation of this regulation and does not conform to it promptly shall be subject to 
failure to follow procedures and/or misconduct.
Section 2•2  Results
TEAM SCHEDULES AND ROSTERS
Deadline – Jan. 9: Team schedules need to be input on the statistics site. Reference the schedule instructions for 
more information. Rosters should be updated before the team’s first contest.
STATISTICS SOFTWARE
All host schools should use either Presto or Statinput to produce statistics for their contests. As in previous seasons, 
one of the participating institutions is still required to submit an XML file as soon as possible following each game.
Use of StatCrew on a computer with the system clock manually altered (“clock rolled back”) is not an acceptable solution 
and should not be used for NCAA Championship events.
If you have any questions, please contact Jeff Williams (jswilliams@ncaa.org). 
RATING PERCENTAGE INDEX (RPI)
The RPI is intended to be used as one of many valuable resources provided to the committee in the selection, seeding and 
bracketing process. It should never be considered anything but an additional evaluation tool. No computer program that 
is based on pure numbers can take into account subjective concepts (e.g., how well a team is playing down the stretch, 
what the loss or return of a top player means to a team, how emotional a specific conference game may be).
Several independent elements are combined to produce the RPI. These elements are part of the statistical information 
that can be utilized by each member in an objective manner. Each committee member independently evaluates a vast 
pool of information available during the process to develop individual preferences. It is these opinions — developed after 
many hours of personal observations (e.g., games watched); review of regional rankings submitted by regional advisory 
committee members; discussion with coaches, directors of athletics, senior woman administrators and commissioners; 
and review and comparison of objective data — that dictate how each individual ultimately will vote on all issues related 
to the selection, seeding and bracketing process.
While the various elements of the RPI are important in the evaluation process, the tournament bracket each year is 
based on the subjectivity of each individual committee member to select the best at-large teams available and to create 
a nationally balanced championship.
The results-reporting and statistics-reporting processes are combined for Division I baseball. Schools will submit all 
schedule and results information to the NCAA statistics site (stats.ncaa.org/login), and this information will then be 
transferred into the RPI system for use by the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee. 
Specific instructions and reporting deadlines have been communicated to SIDs in a memo from the media coordination 
and statistics staff. For questions regarding the reporting process, please contact Jeff Williams (jswilliams@ncaa.org 
or 317-917-6138). 
The 2026 Division I Baseball RPI release will occur Monday, March 2, and daily thereafter (Monday-Friday only), through 
the remainder of the regular season. A final RPI will be released after the conclusion of the MCWS.
Section 2•3  Selection Information 
ALLOCATION OF BERTHS
The championship provides for a field of 64 teams. There are 29 conference champions that qualify automatically; the 
balance of the field is selected at-large by the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee.
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
20

===== PAGE 22 =====
AUTOMATIC QUALIFICATION 
Conference champions that have been certified as automatic qualifiers for the Division I championship are listed in 
Appendix B. Conference champions must be determined not later than midnight Eastern time (by 11:59 p.m. Eastern 
time) on Sunday, May 24.
AT-LARGE SELECTION 
The Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee will follow Bylaw 31.3.3 in selecting at-
large participants. To be eligible for at-large selection, a team must have a better than .500 record against Division I 
competition.
Bylaw 31.3.3.1 – Countable Competition
For NCAA team-championship selection purposes, competition is countable only when the teams played are varsity 
intercollegiate teams of four-year, degree-granting institutions that conduct a majority of their competition in that team 
sport against varsity intercollegiate teams (see Bylaw 20.2.4.6) of United States four-year, degree-granting institutions. 
Competition against service teams, professional teams, semiprofessional teams, amateur teams, two-year colleges and 
club teams shall be excluded.
REGULAR-SEASON CONTESTS
At the time the game is scheduled, both teams shall agree as to whether the game is to be counted for purposes of won-
lost records and team and individual statistics. A game will be counted by both teams as an official contest unless both 
teams agree in writing before the game that it is to be an exhibition contest. If it is an exhibition contest, the team and 
the individual statistics and records cannot be counted for either team. In any event, the contest or exhibition remains 
countable as a contest for the purpose of Bylaws 17.02.3 and 17.4.5.1. Further, all games will be of regulation length.
Coaches should be aware of the application of Bylaw 12.6.3.1 (season of competition). Unless a specific exception is 
applicable, any competition, regardless of time, shall constitute a season of competition. 
No games played during the fall will be included in a team’s won-lost record and statistics.
Forfeited games shall be categorized separately in considering won-lost records.
Section 2•4  Selection Criteria 
The Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee will meet to make the final selections, 
regional and super regional site determinations and pairings.
Announcement of the entire 64-team bracket will be made by the NCAA tentatively at noon Eastern time on Monday, 
May 25, on ESPN2.
The Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee shall have full authority to select the at-large 
teams to compete in the respective regional tournaments. The committee will consider other outstanding teams from 
automatic-qualifying conferences and independent institutions (if applicable) for the at-large selections. The committee 
shall appoint regional advisory committees to assist it in evaluating teams, but recommendations of the regional advisory 
committee members are not binding upon the committee.
In addition, the committee also uses the Rating Percentage Index (RPI), a computer program that provides the committee 
with (1) the institution’s Division I winning percentage, (2) opponents’ average winning percentage and (3) opponents’ 
opponents’ average winning percentage. The RPI is an additional tool used in the evaluation of at-large teams. Please 
note that the adjusted RPI takes into account a bonus/penalty structure. For more specific questions, please contact 
Jeff Williams at 317-917-6138.
The following criteria shall be employed by a governing sport committee in selecting participants for NCAA championships 
competition [Bylaw 31.3.3; Criteria for Selection of Participants]:
 ● Won-lost record;
 ● Strength of schedule; and
 ● Eligibility and availability of student-athletes for NCAA championships.
21
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 23 =====
In addition to Bylaw 31.3.3, the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee will also consider 
the following criteria in the selection of at-large teams for the Division I Baseball Championship (not necessarily in 
priority order). The committee may consider comparative data of individual teams, including, but not limited to:
 ● Overall record.
 ● Division I record.
 ● Overall RPI rank.
 ● Nonconference record and RPI rank.
 ● Conference regular-season record and conference tournament results.
 ● Road record and RPI.
 ● Results of the RPI in four RPI Quadrants based on the location of the game:
 ■ Record against Quadrant 1: (Quadrant 1 – home games vs. 1-25, neutral site games vs. 1-40, away games 
vs. 1-60).
 ■ Record against Quadrant 2: (Quadrant 2 – home games vs. 26-50, neutral site games vs. 41-80, away 
games vs. 61-120).
 ■ Record against Quadrant 3: (Quadrant 3 – home games vs. 51-100, neutral site games vs. 81-160, away 
games vs. 121-240).
 ■ Record against Quadrant 4: (Quadrant 4 – home games vs. 101+, neutral site games vs. 161+, away games 
vs. 241+).
 ● Last 15 games’ record.
 ● Head-to-head competition
 ● Results versus common opponents.
 ● Input from regional advisory committees.
The Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee will also use the following as a resource 
and consideration by the subcommittee during the selection meeting for the Division I Baseball Championship. These 
resources will not be used as selection criteria, however, the subcommittee will use these metrics as a resource in the 
selection meeting when evaluating teams.  
 ● The Kevin Pauga Index (KPI) ranking is a results-based metric that ranks team resumes on a game-by-
game basis, quantifying how hard it was for a team to achieve a record given their schedule. KPI ranks 
every team’s win and loss on a positive-to-negative scale with the game values averaged for the team’s 
KPI ranking. The best win possible is worth about +1.0, the worst loss about -1.0, and a virtual tie at 0.0. 
Adjustments are made to each game’s value based on location of the game, opponent quality and percentage 
of total points scored. KPI rankings are available here: faktorsports.com. 
 ● NEW for 2026: Diamond Sports Rankings (DSR), is a predictive-based metric which uses a point exchange 
system to rank teams by their probability of defeating an average team. The DSR ranking is available here.
PAIRINGS
Fifty percent of the bracket will be seeded in four groupings of 1-8. Published seeding will be in four sets of 1-8 and the 
pairings will honor a 1-8 assignment. The committee will identify the top 32 teams. The top 16 teams will be identified in 
rank order and assigned a seed grouping from 1 to 4. The top 16 will also be identified with its overall rank on the published 
bracket. The balance of the ranked teams, in turn, are assigned to one of the remaining seed groupings (i.e., 5 to 8). Once 
the seed assignment is finalized, it remains unchanged while placing the teams into the championship bracket.
Except for the 32 seeds, the pairings for the regionals, whenever possible, will be based on closest geographical 
location of the teams to the tournament sites. Teams may be moved outside their regions, if necessary, to balance the 
bracket or if the proximity to an opponent outside the region would be comparable and a better competitive matchup 
would occur. Teams from the same conference will be placed in different regionals. The committee will not reseed 
the teams once the initial bracket is determined. The committee will be responsible for determining the regional first-
round pairings and bracket.
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
22

===== PAGE 24 =====
Super regional pairings are determined by the initial placement of teams on the bracket. Two winners of regional 
competitions will meet in one of eight super regional tournaments. The bracket will be developed such that if all of the 
top 16 seeded teams (No. 1 seeds) were to advance from the regional to the super regional round, the matchups would 
be 1 vs. 16, 2 vs. 15, 3 vs. 14, 4 vs. 13, 5 vs. 12, 6 vs. 11, 7 vs. 10, and 8 vs. 9. 
Per Bylaw 31.1.3.2.5, seeded teams will have an opportunity to host regional competition provided they meet all hosting 
requirements and have submitted a bid to host by the May 18 deadline. Selection of teams shall be completed Monday, 
May 25.
CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY/AVAILABILITY 
[Reference: Certification of Eligibility/Availability in the Division I General Section and Bylaws 12.8.1 and 31.2.1.7 in the NCAA 
Division I Manual.] 
Only student-athletes eligible under Bylaws 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 may compete in NCAA championships. In accordance 
with Bylaw 12.8.1, member institutions are required to certify the eligibility of their student-athletes before each 
academic year and to withhold ineligible student-athletes from all intercollegiate competition. Member institutions are 
reminded to notify the NCAA national office before the selection date for each championship of any student-athlete 
who may have participated in regular-season competition but subsequently is determined to be ineligible or unavailable 
for NCAA championship competition. For the Division I Baseball Championship, institutions must notify Randy L. Buhr  
(317-966-7306; rlbuhr@ncaa.org) before May 22.
Section 2•5  Site Selection
Any institution or conference interested in hosting a preliminary round of the 2026 NCAA Division I Baseball Championship 
must submit a proposed budget, facility evaluation form, key contacts form, proof of insurance, video board questionnaire 
(if applicable), and alcohol agreement forms (if applicable) to be considered to host. A separate proposed budget and 
key contacts form must be submitted for each round that an institution or conference is interested in hosting. Please 
respond to sport-specific questions and ensure the institution’s key contacts and facility information are up to date 
via the Championships Bid and Host Profile portal. To submit a bid, first search for the desired championship under 
“championships available for bid” and select “add bid.”
All member institutions are allowed to regularly and easily access their profiles by visiting championships.ncaa.org. For 
profile issues, user access or to reset a password, please email championshipbid@ncaa.org or contact the respective 
championship manager. 
Committee/site representative per diem, mileage and luggage fees will be paid directly by the NCAA and not the host 
institution. Game officials will be reimbursed via the RefQuest (RQ+) system for their game fee, per diem, mileage and 
luggage fees. Hosts do not pay these fees. 
For both the game officials and committee/site representatives, hosts will pay for their lodging expenses and be 
reimbursed by the NCAA through the budget process. However, if the NCAA manages the hotel block for the game 
officials, the officials’ lodging expenses shall be directly billed to the NCAA. The NCAA typically manages the officials’ 
hotel block only at the finals site for the NCAA Division I Baseball Championship.
If your institution wishes to bid to host a preliminary round of the championship, please take the information in Section 
2.1 of this manual into account for accommodations that may be needed if a participating institution has a written policy 
against competition on a particular day for religious reasons (e.g., housing arrangements for each visiting team at your 
regional site, stadium availability, staffing needs).
All bid-related forms can be accessed via the following website: web1.ncaa.org/champsBidV20/exec/login. The 
deadline to submit all materials for hosting preliminary rounds is Monday, May 18.
FINAL FINANCIAL REPORT
[Reference: Bylaw 31.4 in the NCAA Division I Manual.]
A final financial report from each championship site must be submitted via the Championships Bid and Host Profile  
portal (online host reporting system) under the “budget” tab not later than 60 days after the last date of competition.
23
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 25 =====
CONTACT INFORMATION 
If you have any questions regarding the bid process, please contact either Chad Tolliver (317-917-6706 or email at 
ctolliver@ncaa.org) or Randy L. Buhr (317-917-6716 or email at rlbuhr@ncaa.org).
PROSPECTIVE HOSTS
Regarding the regional tournaments, with the criteria listed in Bylaw 31.1.3, the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, 
Championship Subcommittee also follows the additional criteria below:
1. Regional competition shall take place at on-campus sites or alternative sites approved by the Division I Baseball 
Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee.
2. The subcommittee shall attempt to place regional tournaments so that maximum national balance can be obtained, 
preferably at least one regional in each of the five Division I baseball regions.
3. Prospective host institutions must submit a minimum financial guarantee of $75,000, which shall be 75% of the 
estimated net receipts as submitted on the hosting proposal (online proposed budget).
4. Once that guarantee is met, the committee shall consider the additional criteria as listed in Bylaw 31.1.3.2.1.
5. Lights are highly recommended at all prospective regional sites. These lights should meet the NCAA standards found 
by clicking on the “NCAA Broadcast Manual and Policies” link at ncaa.com/media.
6. Host sites are required to have permanent restrooms for fans to be considered to host.
7. The subcommittee will consider previous crowd control and behavior of the prospective host institution.
Regarding the super regional tournaments, with the criteria listed in Bylaw 31.1.3, the Division I Baseball Oversight 
Committee, Championship Subcommittee also follows the additional criteria below:
1. Super regional competition shall take place at on-campus sites or alternate sites approved by the Division I  
Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee.
2. Prospective host institutions must submit a minimum financial guarantee of $50,000, which shall be 75% of the 
estimated net receipts as submitted on the hosting proposal (online proposed budget). The $50,000 minimum applies 
to both two-day and three-day super regional competitions.
3. Consideration for hosting shall be given to the higher seed if a suitable hosting proposal has been received (e.g., 
meets financial guarantee and quality of facility criteria). If the higher seed has not submitted a proposal, the lower-
seeded team will host if its proposal is acceptable.
4. If the super regional matchup is between equally seeded teams, the committee shall review the hosting proposals 
according to the site selection criteria (e.g., quality and availability of the facility, revenue potential and other available 
accommodations) to determine the host. If only one of the teams has submitted a proposal, that team shall host if 
the proposal is acceptable.
5. Lights are highly recommended at all prospective super regional sites. These lights should meet the NCAA standards 
found by clicking on the “NCAA Broadcast Manual and Policies” link at ncaa.com/media.
6. Host sites are required to have permanent restrooms for fans to be considered to host.
7. The subcommittee will consider previous crowd control and behavior of the prospective host institution.
LODGING
Host tournament managers will make local reservations for the competing teams and advise them of the arrangements. 
All hotels used for team lodging should be of equal quality. A minimum of 25 double-double rooms should be reserved 
for each team for all regional and super regional round games. It is ideal and recommended to have all teams housed in 
separate properties. The selected hotel properties are expected to be located within 30-45 minutes of travel time from 
the venue, with a preference for 30 minutes, and be priced at a fair and reasonable market room rate. Hotels beyond 
45 minutes may be considered by the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship Subcommittee as part of 
an acceptable bid, but additional information and rationale is required with the bid, and hosts should also ensure that 
the locations of the hotels for all visiting teams are equitable to the greatest extent possible. The host institution is not 
allowed to use university housing (e.g., dormitories) as an option to house the participating team(s) in a regional and/or 
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
24

===== PAGE 26 =====
super regional. There would be no exceptions to this policy that would be reviewed by the Division I Baseball Oversight 
Committee, Championship Subcommittee. The selection of a competition site may be dependent on availability and 
quality of rooms for participating institutions/student-athletes.
Hotel rooms should be reserved for all participating teams, umpires and the NCAA site representative(s) through the 
final possible night of competition at the site. All participating team rooms should be held until the team(s) checks out 
and then, and only then, should they be made available to the general public. It should be understood by the hotel that 
any rooms released by a participating team after it has been eliminated from the tournament should not be the financial 
responsibility of that team or the host institution. Please note that if accommodations need to be made for a participating 
institution because of religious reasons, please take this into account when making tentative housing arrangements for 
each visiting team (as the teams assigned to such a regional site may arrive on Tuesday instead of a possible Wednesday 
arrival for a traditional Friday-Monday regional format). This potential change in the schedule also needs to be taken into 
consideration when making housing arrangements for the NCAA site representatives and the umpires.
Participating institutions are expected to stay at the hotel assigned by the host and are responsible for confirming with 
the hotel the number of rooms they will require and the rooming lists. If an institution prefers to stay in another hotel, 
the institution must use the rooms for persons accompanying the official travel party or will be charged a financial 
penalty as follows: 1) If the event is one to three nights, the institution will be required to pay for one night; 2) If the event 
is four or more nights, the institution will be required to pay for two nights. The participating institution is expected to 
pay the penalty to the impacted hotel prior to departing from the locale. In either case, the institution is responsible for 
securing arrangements at another property. 
Unless approved by the NCAA in advance, an institution is precluded from relocating to a hotel where another institution 
or the umpires have been assigned. 
Please review the 2026 NCAA Division I Baseball Championship Preliminary Rounds Host Operations manual for more 
lodging details. 
CHAMPIONSHIPS BID AND HOST PROFILE PORTAL (ONLINE HOST REPORTING SYSTEM)
The Championships Bid and Host Profile portal can be accessed at championships.ncaa.org. The deadline to submit all 
bid materials for this championship is Monday, May 18.
The proposed budget form is now an expandable/collapsible tree format with the ability to upload supporting documents. 
Please note the unbudgeted expenditures section has been removed in the budget form. As part of the bid, prospective 
hosts must enter a budgeted amount for the following items that previously were considered unbudgeted expenditures:
 ● Committee/site representative lodging.
 ● Game officials lodging.
 ● State and city taxes/fees.
 ● Ticket fees.
As a reminder, prospective hosts’ budgets should include committee/site representative’s lodging expenses, 
game officials’ lodging expenses, state and city taxes/fees, if applicable, and any ticket fees. Committee/site 
representative’s per diem, mileage and luggage fees will now be paid by the NCAA instead of the host institution. Game 
officials will be reimbursed via the RQ+ system for their game fees, per diem, mileage and luggage fees. Hosts will no 
longer pay these fees.
An online proposed budget must be completed for each round of competition you wish to host. For those institutions 
submitting bids for multiple rounds, a “copy” function is available and will allow you to transfer budget information 
between rounds. The appropriate round and date of competition must be indicated on each budget.
Please be sure to include projected ticket sales in the Receipts section.
As a result of the restructuring of the online budget system, there no longer is an “unbudgeted disbursements” 
section. Therefore, all lodging expenses for officials and site representatives must be included in your budget. As a 
reminder, officials’ fees, per diem and travel expenses do not need to be included, nor do per diem and travel expenses 
for site representatives. The NCAA will pay those expenses directly.
25
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 27 =====
FACILITY EVALUATION FORM
A facility evaluation form must be completed by each institution interested in hosting preliminary-round competition. 
If you submitted a facility evaluation form for this championship last year, the responses to a number of questions 
will auto-populate with information you submitted last year. Please verify or edit those responses as needed, and 
provide responses to all blank questions.
Institutions interested in hosting preliminary-round competition of the NCAA Division I Baseball Championship must 
add (or ensure accuracy of) facility information for the applicable competition venue. This information is located at 
championships.ncaa.org. Any supporting information (e.g., facility diagram, pictures) may be uploaded and attached to 
that facility’s profile. This information will be made available to the Division I Baseball Oversight Committee, Championship 
Subcommittee to aid in their deliberations of prospective host sites. 
KEY CONTACTS FORM
They key contacts form and instructions are available online. Each institution should list and then maintain its key 
contacts associated with each sport and the institution. Individuals can be added via the Championships Bid and Host 
Profile portal at championships.ncaa.org. Please complete a key contacts form for each round of competition you wish 
to host, and a “copy” function is available for the key contacts form, allowing you to transfer this information between 
rounds. The appropriate round and date of competition must be indicated on each key contacts form.
Personnel who will administer the competition should be listed on the key contacts form. Please pay close attention to 
contact names and addresses listed for receivables. Items such as signage, game balls, awards, hydration equipment, 
etc., will be shipped to the listed address(es). In order to receive all supplies and equipment in a timely manner, it is 
imperative that this information is accurate. Please include the proper shipping address for overnight deliveries. P.O. 
Box addresses are not acceptable. 
SAFETY AND SECURITY PLAN
Based upon a review of current and future championships competition venues, discussions with safety and security 
experts, and its own expertise and knowledge, the NCAA has established a Safety and Security Advisory Group (SSAG) 
to develop a compilation of Best Practices for NCAA championships. We urge each competition venue to take these 
Best Practices into account when developing its safety and security program. As part of your bid, please submit a 
safety and security plan for your venue using the document upload in the championship bid portal, which would be 
inclusive of the NCAA Championships Safety and Security Team contact information form, located in Appendix A of the 
Best Practices document. 
The best practices for venue safety and security along with the safety and security contact form is located at:  
ncaa.org/sites/default/files/Best_Practices_for_Venue_Safety_and_Security.pdf
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
26

===== PAGE 28 =====
Division I Baseball
Contents
27
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
Appendixes
Appendix A • Brackets 28
Appendix B • Sport Sponsorship 31
===== PAGE 29 =====
 
Regional Champion Regional Champion
Super Regional Champion Super Regional Champion
Regional Champion Regional Champion
Regional Champion Regional Champion
 
Super Regional Champion Super Regional Champion
Regional Champion Regional Champion
Regional Champion Regional Champion
Super Regional Champion Super Regional Champion
Regional Champion Regional Champion
Regional Champion Regional Champion
Super Regional Champion
Super Regional Champion
Regional Champion Regional Champion
* Host Institution 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Regionals
May 29 - June 1
*Campus or Neutral Sites
Double Elimination
First-Round Pairings
Men's College World Series (MCWS)
June 12-21/22
Omaha, Nebraska
Double Elimination
First-Round Pairings
Best-of-Three MCWS Finals
Super Regionals
June 5-7 or June 6-8
*Campus or Neutral Sites
Best-of-Three Games
Men's College World Series (MCWS)
June 12-21/22
Omaha, Nebraska
Double Elimination
First-Round Pairings
Best-of-Three MCWS Finals
Super Regionals
June 5-7 or June 6-8
*Campus or Neutral Sites
Best-of-Three Games
Regionals
May 29 - June 1
Campus or Neutral Sites
Double Elimination
First-Round Pairings
© 2026 National Collegiate Athletic Association. No commercial use without the 
NCAA's written permission.  
2026 NCAA Division I Baseball Championship
National Top 16 Seeds
1.
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6.
7. 
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
 
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
28
Appendix A • Brackets
===== PAGE 30 =====
            
BRACKET 1
 
 
BRACKET 2
Loser Game 12 (if first loss)
 
*Bracket 1 will be necessary if the winner of Game 9 also wins Game 11. 
All times Central and subject to change. *Home Team
© 2026 National Collegiate Athletic Association. No commercial use without the NCAA's written permission. 
**Bracket 2 will be necessary if the winner of Game 10 also wins Game 12.
#MCWS Finals Game 3 will be necessary if the winner of MCWS Finals Game 1 loses MCWS Finals Game 2.
Loser Game 11 (if first loss)
2026 NCAA Men's College World Series
Charles Schwab Field Omaha - Omaha, Nebraska
June 12-21/22
NATIONAL
CHAMPION
MCWS Finals
(Best two-of-three)
Game One - Saturday, June 20 - TBD (TBD)
Game Two - Sunday, June 21 - TBD (TBD)
#Game Three - Monday, June 22 - TBD (TBD)
Game 11
Wednesday, June 17
TBD
TBD
Game 1
Friday, June 12
TBD
TBD
Game 6
Sunday, June 14
TBD
TBD
Game 3
Saturday, June 13
TBD
TBD
Game 4
Saturday, June 13 
TBD
TBD
Game 12
Wednesday, June 17
TBD
TBD
Game 10
Tuesday, June 16 
TBD
TBD
Game 7
Monday, June 15
TBD
TBD
**Bracket 2
(if necessary)
Thursday, June 18
TBD
TBD BRACKET 2
WINNER
Game 2
Friday, June 12
TBD
TBD
Game 5
Sunday, June 14
TBD
TBD
BRACKET 1
WINNER
*Bracket 1
(if necessary)
Thursday, June 18
TBD
TBD
Game 9
Tuesday, June 16
TBD
TBD
Game 8
Monday, June 15
TBD
TBD
29
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 31 =====
 
1
4
3
2
Regional Champion
All times are local and subject to change.
© 2026 National Collegiate Athletic Association.  No commercial use without the NCAA's written permission. 
Game 5
Sunday, May 31              
TBD                               
TBD                       
Game 3
Saturday, May 30                   
TBD                                                    
TBD                                                                                                                                       
*Home team
2026 NCAA Division I Baseball Championship
 Regional
May 29 - June 1, 2026
Game 1
Friday, May 29
TBD                                     
TBD                          Game 4
Saturday, May 30                           
TBD                                   
TBD                               
Game 6
Sunday, May 31                                  
TBD                                         
TBD                                          
Game 2
Friday, May 29
TBD                                           
TBD                             
Game 7
(if necessary)
Monday, June 1
TBD                               
TBD                       
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
30

===== PAGE 32 =====
EAST REGION
America East Conference (7)
University of Albany
Binghamton University
Bryant University
University of Maine, Orono
University of Maryland, Baltimore County
University of Massachusetts Lowell
New Jersey Institute of Technology
Atlantic 10 Conference (12)
Davidson College
University of Dayton
Fordham University
George Mason University
George Washington University
La Salle University
University of Rhode Island
University of Richmond
St. Bonaventure University
Saint Joseph’s University
Saint Louis University
Virginia Commonwealth University
Atlantic Coast Conference (16)
Boston College
University of California, Berkeley
Clemson University
Duke University
Florida State University
Georgia Institute of Technology
University of Louisville
University of Miami (Florida)
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
North Carolina State University
University of Notre Dame
University of Pittsburgh
Stanford University
University of Virginia
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Wake Forest University
Coastal Athletic Association (11)
Campbell University
College of Charleston (South Carolina)
Elon University 
Hofstra University
Monmouth University
North Carolina A&T State University
University of North Carolina Wilmington
Northeastern University
Stony Brook University
Towson University
College of William and Mary
The Ivy League (8)
Brown University
Columbia University-Barnard College
Cornell University
Dartmouth College
Harvard University
University of Pennsylvania
Princeton University
Yale University
Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference (13)
Canisius College 
Fairfield University
Iona College
Manhattan College
Marist College
Merrimack College
Mount St. Mary’s University
Niagara University
Quinnipiac University
Rider University
Sacred Heart University
Saint Peter’s University
Siena College
31
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
Appendix B • Sport Sponsorship
===== PAGE 33 =====
Northeast Conference (9/12*)
Central Connecticut State University
Coppin State University
Delaware State University
Fairleigh Dickinson University, Metropolitan Campus
*LeMoyne College (not eligible)
Long Island University-Brooklyn Campus
University of Maryland, Eastern Shore
*Mercyhurst University (not eligible)
*University of New Haven (not eligible)
Norfolk State University
Stonehill College
Wagner College
Patriot League (6)
Bucknell University
College of Holy Cross
Lafayette College
Lehigh University
U.S. Military Academy
U.S. Naval Academy
*Please note the first figure in parentheses lists the number of eligible teams in the conference for the 2026 championship.
MIDWEST REGION
Big East Conference (8)
Butler University
University of Connecticut
Creighton University
Georgetown University
St. John’s University (New York)
Seton Hall University
Villanova University
Xavier University
Big Ten Conference (17)
University of California, Los Angeles
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Indiana University, Bloomington
University of Iowa
University of Maryland, College Park
University of Michigan
Michigan State University
University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Northwestern University
The Ohio State University
University of Oregon
Pennsylvania State University
Purdue University
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick
University of Southern California
University of Washington
Horizon League (5)
Northern Kentucky University
Oakland University
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Wright State University
Youngstown State University
Mid-American Conference (12)
University of Akron
Ball State University
Bowling Green State University
Central Michigan University
Eastern Michigan University
Kent State University
University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Miami University (Ohio)
Northern Illinois University
Ohio University
University of Toledo
Western Michigan University
Missouri Valley Conference (9)
Belmont University
Bradley University
University of Evansville
University of Illinois at Chicago
Illinois State University
Indiana State University
Murray State University
Southern Illinois University at Carbondale
Valparaiso University
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
32

===== PAGE 34 =====
The Summit League (6)
University of Nebraska at Omaha 
North Dakota State University
University of Northern Colorado
Oral Roberts University
University of St. Thomas (Minnesota) 
South Dakota State University
SOUTH REGION
Big 12 Conference (14)
University of Arizona
Arizona State University
Baylor University
Brigham Young University
University of Central Florida
University of Cincinnati
University of Houston
University of Kansas
Kansas State University
Oklahoma State University
Texas Christian University
Texas Tech University
University of Utah
West Virginia University
Conference USA (12)
Dallas Baptist University
University of Delaware
Florida International University
Jacksonville State University
Kennesaw State University
Liberty University
Louisiana Tech University
Middle Tennessee State University
Missouri State University
New Mexico State University
Sam Houston State University
Western Kentucky University
Ohio Valley Conference (10)
University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Eastern Illinois University
Lindenwood University
Morehead State University
Southeast Missouri State University
Southern Illinois University Edwardsville
University of Southern Indiana
University of Tennessee at Martin
Tennessee Technological University
Western Illinois University
Southland Conference (11)
Houston Christian University
University of the Incarnate Word
Lamar University
McNeese State University
University of New Orleans
Nicholls State University
Northwestern State University
Southeastern Louisiana University
Stephen F. Austin University
Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Southwestern Athletic Conference (12)
Alabama A&M University
Alabama State University 
Alcorn State University 
University of Arkansas, Pine Bluff
Bethune-Cookman University 
Florida A&M University
Grambling State University
Jackson State University
Mississippi Valley State University
Prairie View A&M University
Southern University, Baton Rouge 
Texas Southern University
33
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
===== PAGE 35 =====
Sun Belt Conference (14)
Appalachian State University
Arkansas State University
Coastal Carolina University
Georgia Southern University
Georgia State University
James Madison University
University of Louisiana at Lafayette
University of Louisiana at Monroe
Marshall University
Old Dominion University
University of South Alabama
University of Southern Mississippi
Texas State University-San Marcos
Troy University
SOUTHEAST REGION
American Conference (10)
University of Alabama at Birmingham
East Carolina University
Florida Atlantic University
University of Memphis
The University of North Carolina at Charlotte 
Rice University
University of South Florida
University of Texas at San Antonio
Tulane University
Wichita State University
ASUN Conference (11/12*)
Austin Peay State University
Bellarmine University
University of Central Arkansas
Eastern Kentucky University
Florida Gulf Coast University
Jacksonville University
Lipscomb University
University of North Alabama 
University of North Florida
Queens University of Charlotte 
Stetson University
*University of West Georgia (not eligible)
Big South Conference (9)
Charleston Southern University
Gardner-Webb University
High Point University
Longwood University
University of North Carolina Asheville
Presbyterian College
Radford University
University of South Carolina Upstate
Winthrop University
Southeastern Conference (16)
University of Alabama
University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Auburn University
University of Florida
University of Georgia
University of Kentucky
Louisiana State University
University of Mississippi
Mississippi State University
University of Missouri, Columbia
University of Oklahoma
University of South Carolina, Columbia
University of Tennessee, Knoxville
University of Texas at Austin
Texas A&M University, College Station
Vanderbilt University
Southern Conference (8)
The Citadel
East Tennessee State University
Mercer University
The University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Samford University
Virginia Military Institute
Western Carolina University
Wofford College
*Please note the first figure in parentheses lists the number of eligible teams in the conference for the 2026 championship.
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL
34

===== PAGE 36 =====
WEST REGION
Big West Conference (11)
University of California, Davis
University of California, Irvine
University of California, Riverside
University of California, San Diego
University of California, Santa Barbara
California Polytechnic State University
California State University, Bakersfield
California State University, Fullerton
California State University, Northridge
University of Hawaii, Manoa
Long Beach State University
Mountain West Conference (9)
California State University, Fresno
Grand Canyon University 
University of Nevada, Las Vegas
University of Nevada, Reno
University of New Mexico
San Diego State University
San Jose State University
U.S. Air Force Academy
Washington State University
Pac-12 Conference (1)
Oregon State University (playing an independent schedule)
West Coast Conference (10)
Gonzaga University
Loyola Marymount University
University of the Pacific
Pepperdine University
University of Portland
Saint Mary’s College of California
University of San Diego
University of San Francisco
Santa Clara University
Seattle University
Western Athletic Conference (7)
Abilene Christian University
California Baptist University 
California State University, Sacramento
Tarleton State University
University of Texas at Arlington
Utah Tech University
Utah Valley University
*Please note the first figure in parentheses lists the number of eligible teams in the conference for the 2026 championship.
35
NCAA PRECHAMPIONSHIP MANUAL
DIVISION I BASEBALL